plugin/dnstap/README.md, before:

# dnstap

## Name

*dnstap* - enables logging to dnstap.

## Description

dnstap is a flexible, structured binary log format for DNS software; see https://dnstap.info. With this
plugin you make CoreDNS output dnstap logging.

Note that there is an internal buffer, so expect at least 13 requests before the server sends its
dnstap messages to the socket.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
dnstap SOCKET [full]
~~~

* **SOCKET** is the socket path supplied to the dnstap command line tool.
* `full` to include the wire-format DNS message.

## Examples

Log information about client requests and responses to */tmp/dnstap.sock*.

~~~ txt
dnstap /tmp/dnstap.sock
~~~

Log information including the wire-format DNS message about client requests and responses to */tmp/dnstap.sock*.

~~~ txt
dnstap unix:///tmp/dnstap.sock full
~~~

Log to a remote endpoint.

~~~ txt
dnstap tcp://127.0.0.1:6000 full
~~~

## Command Line Tool

Dnstap has a command line tool that can be used to inspect the logging. The tool can be found
at Github: <https://github.com/dnstap/golang-dnstap>. It's written in Go.

The following command listens on the given socket and decodes messages to stdout.

~~~ sh
$ dnstap -u /tmp/dnstap.sock
~~~

The following command listens on the given socket and saves message payloads to a binary dnstap-format log file.

~~~ sh
$ dnstap -u /tmp/dnstap.sock -w /tmp/test.dnstap
~~~

Listen for dnstap messages on port 6000.

~~~ sh
$ dnstap -l 127.0.0.1:6000
~~~

## Using Dnstap in your plugin

In your setup function, check to see if the *dnstap* plugin is loaded:

~~~ go
c.OnStartup(func() error {
    if taph := dnsserver.GetConfig(c).Handler("dnstap"); taph != nil {
        if tapPlugin, ok := taph.(dnstap.Dnstap); ok {
            f.tapPlugin = &tapPlugin
        }
    }
    return nil
})
~~~

And then in your plugin:

~~~ go
func (x RandomPlugin) ServeDNS(ctx context.Context, w dns.ResponseWriter, r *dns.Msg) (int, error) {
    if tapPlugin != nil {
        q := new(msg.Msg)
        msg.SetQueryTime(q, time.Now())
        msg.SetQueryAddress(q, w.RemoteAddr())
        if tapPlugin.IncludeRawMessage {
            buf, _ := r.Pack() // r has been seen packed/unpacked before, this should not fail
            q.QueryMessage = buf
        }
        msg.SetType(q, tap.Message_CLIENT_QUERY)
        tapPlugin.TapMessage(q)
    }
    // ...
}
~~~

## See Also

The website [dnstap.info](https://dnstap.info) has info on the dnstap protocol.
The *forward* plugin's `dnstap.go` uses dnstap to tap messages sent to an upstream.

Commit message:

plugin/dnstap: remove custom encoder (#4242)
* plugin/dnstap: remove encoder*.go

Those files reimplemented parts of the dnstap spec, we can just use the
dnstap functions for that. This leaves all the queuing that is enabled
and drops messages if the dnstap reader can't keep up. In the new code
flush() would never return an error (at least I couldn't make it do so),
so the reconnect functionally is moved to kick off when we get write
errors.

Some smaller cosmetic changes as well, `d.socket` is now `proto`, which
makes the dial() function smaller.

Total testing time is now <1s (which was the impetus to look into this
plugin *again*).

See #4238
The buffered channel needs to be sized correctly, as we may need to do
some queing if the dnstap reader can't keep up.

Signed-off-by: Miek Gieben <miek@miek.nl>

* add missing file

Signed-off-by: Miek Gieben <miek@miek.nl>

* update doc on queing

Signed-off-by: Miek Gieben <miek@miek.nl>

plugin/dnstap/README.md, after:

# dnstap

## Name

*dnstap* - enables logging to dnstap.

## Description

dnstap is a flexible, structured binary log format for DNS software; see https://dnstap.info. With this
plugin you make CoreDNS output dnstap logging.

Every message is sent to the socket as soon as it comes in, the *dnstap* plugin has a buffer of
10000 messages, above that number dnstap messages will be dropped (this is logged).

## Syntax

~~~ txt
dnstap SOCKET [full]
~~~

* **SOCKET** is the socket path supplied to the dnstap command line tool.
* `full` to include the wire-format DNS message.

## Examples

Log information about client requests and responses to */tmp/dnstap.sock*.

~~~ txt
dnstap /tmp/dnstap.sock
~~~

Log information including the wire-format DNS message about client requests and responses to */tmp/dnstap.sock*.

~~~ txt
dnstap unix:///tmp/dnstap.sock full
~~~

Log to a remote endpoint.

~~~ txt
dnstap tcp://127.0.0.1:6000 full
~~~

## Command Line Tool

Dnstap has a command line tool that can be used to inspect the logging. The tool can be found
at Github: <https://github.com/dnstap/golang-dnstap>. It's written in Go.

The following command listens on the given socket and decodes messages to stdout.

~~~ sh
$ dnstap -u /tmp/dnstap.sock
~~~

The following command listens on the given socket and saves message payloads to a binary dnstap-format log file.

~~~ sh
$ dnstap -u /tmp/dnstap.sock -w /tmp/test.dnstap
~~~

Listen for dnstap messages on port 6000.

~~~ sh
$ dnstap -l 127.0.0.1:6000
~~~

## Using Dnstap in your plugin

In your setup function, check to see if the *dnstap* plugin is loaded:

~~~ go
c.OnStartup(func() error {
    if taph := dnsserver.GetConfig(c).Handler("dnstap"); taph != nil {
        if tapPlugin, ok := taph.(dnstap.Dnstap); ok {
            f.tapPlugin = &tapPlugin
        }
    }
    return nil
})
~~~

And then in your plugin:

~~~ go
func (x RandomPlugin) ServeDNS(ctx context.Context, w dns.ResponseWriter, r *dns.Msg) (int, error) {
    if tapPlugin != nil {
        q := new(msg.Msg)
        msg.SetQueryTime(q, time.Now())
        msg.SetQueryAddress(q, w.RemoteAddr())
        if tapPlugin.IncludeRawMessage {
            buf, _ := r.Pack() // r has been seen packed/unpacked before, this should not fail
            q.QueryMessage = buf
        }
        msg.SetType(q, tap.Message_CLIENT_QUERY)
        tapPlugin.TapMessage(q)
    }
    // ...
}
~~~

## See Also

The website [dnstap.info](https://dnstap.info) has info on the dnstap protocol. The *forward*
plugin's `dnstap.go` uses dnstap to tap messages sent to an upstream.
