plugin/trace/README.md, before:

# trace

*trace* enables OpenTracing-based tracing of DNS requests as they go through the plugin chain.

## Syntax

The simplest form is just:

~~~
trace [ENDPOINT-TYPE] [ENDPOINT]
~~~

* **ENDPOINT-TYPE** is the type of tracing destination. Currently only `zipkin` is supported
  and that is what it defaults to.
* **ENDPOINT** is the tracing destination, and defaults to `localhost:9411`. For Zipkin, if
  ENDPOINT does not begin with `http`, then it will be transformed to `http://ENDPOINT/api/v1/spans`.

With this form, all queries will be traced.

Additional features can be enabled with this syntax:

~~~
trace [ENDPOINT-TYPE] [ENDPOINT] {
	every AMOUNT
	service NAME
	client_server
}
~~~

* `every` **AMOUNT** will only trace one query of each AMOUNT queries. For example, to trace 1 in every
  100 queries, use AMOUNT of 100. The default is 1.
* `service` **NAME** allows you to specify the service name reported to the tracing server.
  Default is `coredns`.
* `client_server` will enable the `ClientServerSameSpan` OpenTracing feature.

## Zipkin
You can run Zipkin on a Docker host like this:

```
docker run -d -p 9411:9411 openzipkin/zipkin
```

## Examples

Use an alternative Zipkin address:

~~~
trace tracinghost:9253
~~~

or

~~~ corefile
. {
    trace zipkin tracinghost:9253
}
~~~

If for some reason you are using an API reverse proxy or something and need to remap
the standard Zipkin URL you can do something like:

~~~
trace http://tracinghost:9411/zipkin/api/v1/spans
~~~

Trace one query every 10000 queries, rename the service, and enable same span:

~~~
trace tracinghost:9411 {
	every 10000
	service dnsproxy
	client_server
}
~~~

Commit message:

Manual pages (#1346)
* Add manual pages

Generate manual pages from the README and extend README with Name and
Description sections.

The generation requires 'ronn' which may not be available. Just check in
all generated manual pages.

plugin/trace/README.md, after:

# trace

## Name

*trace* - enables OpenTracing-based tracing of DNS requests as they go through the plugin chain.

## Description

With *trace* you enable OpenTracing of how a request flows through CoreDNS.

## Syntax

The simplest form is just:

~~~
trace [ENDPOINT-TYPE] [ENDPOINT]
~~~

* **ENDPOINT-TYPE** is the type of tracing destination. Currently only `zipkin` is supported
  and that is what it defaults to.
* **ENDPOINT** is the tracing destination, and defaults to `localhost:9411`. For Zipkin, if
  ENDPOINT does not begin with `http`, then it will be transformed to `http://ENDPOINT/api/v1/spans`.

With this form, all queries will be traced.

Additional features can be enabled with this syntax:

~~~
trace [ENDPOINT-TYPE] [ENDPOINT] {
	every AMOUNT
	service NAME
	client_server
}
~~~

* `every` **AMOUNT** will only trace one query of each AMOUNT queries. For example, to trace 1 in every
  100 queries, use AMOUNT of 100. The default is 1.
* `service` **NAME** allows you to specify the service name reported to the tracing server.
  Default is `coredns`.
* `client_server` will enable the `ClientServerSameSpan` OpenTracing feature.

## Zipkin
You can run Zipkin on a Docker host like this:

```
docker run -d -p 9411:9411 openzipkin/zipkin
```

## Examples

Use an alternative Zipkin address:

~~~
trace tracinghost:9253
~~~

or

~~~ corefile
. {
    trace zipkin tracinghost:9253
}
~~~

If for some reason you are using an API reverse proxy or something and need to remap
the standard Zipkin URL you can do something like:

~~~
trace http://tracinghost:9411/zipkin/api/v1/spans
~~~

Trace one query every 10000 queries, rename the service, and enable same span:

~~~
trace tracinghost:9411 {
	every 10000
	service dnsproxy
	client_server
}
~~~
