plugin/whoami/README.md, before:

# whoami

*whoami* returns your resolver's local IP address, port and transport. Your IP address is returned
 in the additional section as either an A or AAAA record.

When CoreDNS can not find a Corefile to load, this is the default plugin it loads.

The reply always has an empty answer section. The port and transport are included in the additional
section as a SRV record, transport can be "tcp" or "udp".

~~~ txt
._<transport>.qname. 0 IN SRV 0 0 <port> .
~~~

If CoreDNS can't find a Corefile on startup this is the *default* plugin that gets loaded. As
such it can be used to check that CoreDNS is responding to queries. Other than that this plugin
is of limited use in production.

The *whoami* plugin will respond to every A or AAAA query, regardless of the query name.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
whoami
~~~

## Examples

Start a server on the default port and load the *whoami* plugin.

~~~ corefile
. {
    whoami
}
~~~

When queried for "example.org A", CoreDNS will respond with:

~~~ txt
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.org.   IN       A

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
example.org.            0       IN      A       10.240.0.1
_udp.example.org.       0       IN      SRV     0 0 40212
~~~

Commit message:

Manual pages (#1346)
* Add manual pages

Generate manual pages from the README and extend README with Name and
Description sections.

The generation requires 'ronn' which may not be available. Just check in
all generated manual pages.

plugin/whoami/README.md, after:

# whoami

## Name

*whoami* - returns your resolver's local IP address, port and transport. 

## Description

The *whoami* plugin is not really that useful, but can be used for having a simple (fast) endpoint
to test clients against. When *whoami* returns a response it will have your client's IP address the
additional section as either an A or AAAA record.

The reply always has an empty answer section. The port and transport are included in the additional
section as a SRV record, transport can be "tcp" or "udp".

~~~ txt
._<transport>.qname. 0 IN SRV 0 0 <port> .
~~~

The *whoami* plugin will respond to every A or AAAA query, regardless of the query name.

If CoreDNS can't find a Corefile on startup this is the _default_ plugin that gets loaded. As such
it can be used to check that CoreDNS is responding to queries. Other than that this plugin is of
limited use in production.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
whoami
~~~

## Examples

Start a server on the default port and load the *whoami* plugin.

~~~ corefile
. {
    whoami
}
~~~

When queried for "example.org A", CoreDNS will respond with:

~~~ txt
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;example.org.   IN       A

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
example.org.            0       IN      A       10.240.0.1
_udp.example.org.       0       IN      SRV     0 0 40212
~~~
