middleware/log/README.md, before:

# log

*log* enables query logging.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
log
~~~

* With no arguments, a query log entry is written to query.log in the common log format for all requests

~~~ txt
log FILE
~~~

* **FILE** is the log file to create (or append to).

~~~ txt
log [NAME] FILE [FORMAT]
~~~

* `NAME` is the name to match in order to be logged
* `FILE` is the log file to create (or append to)
* `FORMAT` is the log format to use (default is Common Log Format)

You can further specify the class of responses that get logged:

~~~ txt
log [NAME] FILE [FORMAT] {
    class [success|denial|error|all]
}
~~~

Here `success` `denial` and `error` denotes the class of responses that should be logged. The
classes have the following meaning:

* `success`: successful response
* `denial`: either NXDOMAIN or NODATA (name exists, type does not)
* `error`: SERVFAIL, NOTIMP, REFUSED, etc. Anything that indicates the remote server is not willing to
    resolve the request.
* `all`: the default - nothing is specified.

If no class is specified, it defaults to *all*.

## Log File

The log file can be any filename. It could also be *stdout* or *stderr* to write the log to the console,
or *syslog* to write to the system log (except on Windows). If the log file does not exist beforehand,
CoreDNS will create it before appending to it.

## Log Format

You can specify a custom log format with any placeholder values. Log supports both request and
response placeholders.

The following place holders are supported:

* `{type}`: qtype of the request.
* `{name}`: qname of the request.
* `{class}`: qclass of the request.
* `{proto}`: protocol used (tcp or udp).
* `{when}`: time of the query.
* `{remote}`: client's IP address.
* `{size}`: request size in bytes.
* `{port}`: client's port.
* `{duration}`: response duration.
* `{>bufsize}`: the EDNS0 buffer size advertised.
* `{>do}`: is the EDNS0 DO (DNSSEC OK) bit set.
* `{>id}`: query ID
* `{>opcode}`: query OPCODE.
* `{rcode}`: response RCODE.
* `{rsize}`: response size.

The default Common Log Format is:

~~~ txt
`{remote} - [{when}] "{type} {class} {name} {proto} {size} {>do} {>bufsize}" {rcode} {rsize} {duration}`
~~~

## Examples

Log all requests to a file:

~~~
log /var/log/query.log
~~~

Custom log format:

~~~
log . ../query.log "{proto} Request: {name} {type} {>id}"
~~~

Only log denials for example.org (and below to a file)

~~~
log example.org example-query-log {
    class denial
}
~~~

Commit message:

middleware/{log,errors}: output everything to stdout (#684)
Limit the options in both errors and log middleware, just output to
stdout and let someone else (journald,docker) care about where to route
the logs. This removes syslog and logging to a file.

Fixes #573 #602

middleware/log/README.md, after:

# log

*log* enables query logging to standard output.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
log
~~~

* With no arguments, a query log entry is written to *stdout* in the common log format for all requests

~~~ txt
log FILE
~~~

* **FILE** is the log file to create (or append to). The *only* valid name for **FILE** is *stdout*.

~~~ txt
log [NAME] FILE [FORMAT]
~~~

* `NAME` is the name to match in order to be logged
* `FILE` is the log file (again only *stdout* is allowed here).
* `FORMAT` is the log format to use (default is Common Log Format)

You can further specify the class of responses that get logged:

~~~ txt
log [NAME] FILE [FORMAT] {
    class [success|denial|error|all]
}
~~~

Here `success` `denial` and `error` denotes the class of responses that should be logged. The
classes have the following meaning:

* `success`: successful response
* `denial`: either NXDOMAIN or NODATA (name exists, type does not)
* `error`: SERVFAIL, NOTIMP, REFUSED, etc. Anything that indicates the remote server is not willing to
    resolve the request.
* `all`: the default - nothing is specified.

If no class is specified, it defaults to *all*.

## Log File

The "log file" can only be *stdout*. CoreDNS expects another service to pick up this output and deal
with it, i.e. journald when using systemd or Docker's logging capabilities.

## Log Format

You can specify a custom log format with any placeholder values. Log supports both request and
response placeholders.

The following place holders are supported:

* `{type}`: qtype of the request.
* `{name}`: qname of the request.
* `{class}`: qclass of the request.
* `{proto}`: protocol used (tcp or udp).
* `{when}`: time of the query.
* `{remote}`: client's IP address.
* `{size}`: request size in bytes.
* `{port}`: client's port.
* `{duration}`: response duration.
* `{>bufsize}`: the EDNS0 buffer size advertised.
* `{>do}`: is the EDNS0 DO (DNSSEC OK) bit set.
* `{>id}`: query ID
* `{>opcode}`: query OPCODE.
* `{rcode}`: response RCODE.
* `{rsize}`: response size.

The default Common Log Format is:

~~~ txt
`{remote} - [{when}] "{type} {class} {name} {proto} {size} {>do} {>bufsize}" {rcode} {rsize} {duration}`
~~~

## Examples

Log all requests to stdout

~~~
log stdout
~~~

Custom log format, for all zones (`.`)

~~~
log . stdout "{proto} Request: {name} {type} {>id}"
~~~

Only log denials for example.org (and below to a file)

~~~
log example.org stdout {
    class denial
}
~~~
