middleware/etcd/README.md, before:

# etcd

`etcd` enabled reading zone data from an etcd instance. The data in etcd has to be encoded as
a [message](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns/blob/2fcff74cdc9f9a7dd64189a447ef27ac354b725f/msg/service.go#L26)
like [SkyDNS](https//github.com/skynetservices/skydns). It should also work just like SkyDNS.

The etcd middleware makes extensive use of the proxy middleware to forward and query other servers
in the network.

## Syntax

~~~
etcd [zones...]
~~~

* `zones` zones etcd should be authoritative for.

The path will default to `/skydns` the local etcd proxy (http://localhost:2379).
If no zones are specified the block's zone will be used as the zone.

If you want to `round robin` A and AAAA responses look at the `loadbalance` middleware.

~~~
etcd [zones...] {
    stubzones
    path /skydns
    endpoint endpoint...
    upstream address...
    tls cert key cacert
    debug
}
~~~

* `stubzones` enable the stub zones feature. The stubzone is *only* done in the etcd tree located
    under the *first* zone specified.
* `path` the path inside etcd, defaults to "/skydns".
* `endpoint` the etcd endpoints, default to "http://localhost:2397".
* `upstream` upstream resolvers to be used resolve external names found in etcd, think CNAMEs
  pointing to external names. If you want CoreDNS to act as a proxy for clients you'll need to add
  the proxy middleware.
* `tls` followed the cert, key and the CA's cert filenames.
* `debug` allow debug queries. Prefix the name with `o-o.debug.` to retrieve extra information in the
  additional section of the reply in the form of text records:

    skydns.test.skydns.dom.a.	300	CH	TXT	"127.0.0.1:0(10,0,,false)[0,]"

  This shows the complete key as the owername, the rdata of the TXT record has:
  `host:port(priority,weight,txt content,mail)[targetstrip,group]`.

  Any errors seen doing parsing will show up like this:

    . 0 CH TXT "/skydns/local/skydns/r/a: invalid character '.' after object key:value pair"

  which shows `a.r.skydns.local.` has a json encoding problem.


## Examples

This is the default SkyDNS setup, with everying specified in full:

~~~
.:53 {
    etcd skydns.local {
        stubzones
        path /skydns
        endpoint http://localhost:2379
        upstream 8.8.8.8:53 8.8.4.4:53
    }
    prometheus
    cache 160 skydns.local
    loadbalance
    proxy . 8.8.8.8:53 8.8.4.4:53
}
~~~

### Reverse zones

Reverse zones are supported. You need to make CoreDNS aware of the fact that you are also
authoritative for the reverse. For instance if you want to add the reverse for 10.0.0.0/24, you'll
need to add the zone `10.in-addr.arpa` to the list of zones (the fun starts with reverse IPv6 zones
in the ip6.arpa domain). Showing a snippet of a Corefile:

~~~
    etcd skydns.local 10.in-addr.arpa {
        stubzones
    ...
~~~

Next you'll need to populate the zone with reverse records, here we add a reverse for
10.0.0.127 pointing to reverse.skydns.local.

~~~
% curl -XPUT http://127.0.0.1:4001/v2/keys/skydns/arpa/in-addr/10/0/0/127 \
    -d value='{"host":"reverse.skydns.local."}'
~~~

Querying with dig:

~~~
% dig @localhost -x 10.0.0.127 +short
reverse.atoom.net.
~~~

Or with *debug* queries enabled:

~~~
% dig @localhost -p 1053 o-o.debug.127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. PTR

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;o-o.debug.127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. IN  PTR

;; ANSWER SECTION:
127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 300    IN      PTR     reverse.atoom.net.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 300    CH      TXT     "reverse.atoom.net.:0(10,0,,false)[0,]"
~~~

Commit message:

Add debugging for failed lookups (#199)
This PR adds debug support for failed lookups. I.e. when a record
is outside the configured domain, we do a forward lookup. If this
fails the error is silently dropped. This PR adds it back as an error
in when debugging is enabled.

Fixes #197

middleware/etcd/README.md, after:

# etcd

`etcd` enabled reading zone data from an etcd instance. The data in etcd has to be encoded as
a [message](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns/blob/2fcff74cdc9f9a7dd64189a447ef27ac354b725f/msg/service.go#L26)
like [SkyDNS](https//github.com/skynetservices/skydns). It should also work just like SkyDNS.

The etcd middleware makes extensive use of the proxy middleware to forward and query other servers
in the network.

## Syntax

~~~
etcd [zones...]
~~~

* `zones` zones etcd should be authoritative for.

The path will default to `/skydns` the local etcd proxy (http://localhost:2379).
If no zones are specified the block's zone will be used as the zone.

If you want to `round robin` A and AAAA responses look at the `loadbalance` middleware.

~~~
etcd [zones...] {
    stubzones
    path /skydns
    endpoint endpoint...
    upstream address...
    tls cert key cacert
    debug
}
~~~

* `stubzones` enable the stub zones feature. The stubzone is *only* done in the etcd tree located
    under the *first* zone specified.
* `path` the path inside etcd, defaults to "/skydns".
* `endpoint` the etcd endpoints, default to "http://localhost:2397".
* `upstream` upstream resolvers to be used resolve external names found in etcd, think CNAMEs
  pointing to external names. If you want CoreDNS to act as a proxy for clients you'll need to add
  the proxy middleware.
* `tls` followed the cert, key and the CA's cert filenames.
* `debug` allow debug queries. Prefix the name with `o-o.debug.` to retrieve extra information in the
  additional section of the reply in the form of text records.

## Examples

This is the default SkyDNS setup, with everying specified in full:

~~~
.:53 {
    etcd skydns.local {
        stubzones
        path /skydns
        endpoint http://localhost:2379
        upstream 8.8.8.8:53 8.8.4.4:53
    }
    prometheus
    cache 160 skydns.local
    loadbalance
    proxy . 8.8.8.8:53 8.8.4.4:53
}
~~~

### Reverse zones

Reverse zones are supported. You need to make CoreDNS aware of the fact that you are also
authoritative for the reverse. For instance if you want to add the reverse for 10.0.0.0/24, you'll
need to add the zone `10.in-addr.arpa` to the list of zones (the fun starts with reverse IPv6 zones
in the ip6.arpa domain). Showing a snippet of a Corefile:

~~~
    etcd skydns.local 10.in-addr.arpa {
        stubzones
    ...
~~~

Next you'll need to populate the zone with reverse records, here we add a reverse for
10.0.0.127 pointing to reverse.skydns.local.

~~~
% curl -XPUT http://127.0.0.1:4001/v2/keys/skydns/arpa/in-addr/10/0/0/127 \
    -d value='{"host":"reverse.skydns.local."}'
~~~

Querying with dig:

~~~
% dig @localhost -x 10.0.0.127 +short
reverse.atoom.net.
~~~

Or with *debug* queries enabled:

~~~
% dig @localhost -p 1053 o-o.debug.127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. PTR

;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 4096
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;o-o.debug.127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. IN  PTR

;; ANSWER SECTION:
127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 300    IN      PTR     reverse.atoom.net.

;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
127.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 300    CH      TXT     "reverse.atoom.net.:0(10,0,,false)[0,]"
~~~

## Debug queries

When debug queries are enabled CoreDNS will return errors and etcd records encountered during the resolution
process in the response. The general form looks like this:

    skydns.test.skydns.dom.a.	300	CH	TXT	"127.0.0.1:0(10,0,,false)[0,]"

  This shows the complete key as the owername, the rdata of the TXT record has:
  `host:port(priority,weight,txt content,mail)[targetstrip,group]`.

  Any errors seen doing parsing will show up like this:

    . 0 CH TXT "/skydns/local/skydns/r/a: invalid character '.' after object key:value pair"

  which shows `a.r.skydns.local.` has a json encoding problem.

  Errors when communicating with an upstream will be returned as:

    . 0 CH TXT "example.org. IN A: unreachable backend"

  Signalling that an A record for example.org. was sought, but it failed
  with that error.
