plugin/route53/README.md, before:

# route53

## Name

*route53* - enables serving zone data from AWS route53.

## Description

The route53 plugin is useful for serving zones from resource record sets in AWS route53. This plugin
only supports A and AAAA records. The route53 plugin can be used when coredns is deployed on AWS.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
route53 [ZONE:HOSTED_ZONE_ID...] {
    [aws_access_key AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY]
}
~~~

* **ZONE** the name of the domain to be accessed.
* **HOSTED_ZONE_ID** the ID of the hosted zone that contains the resource record sets to be accessed.
* **AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID** and **AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY** the AWS access key ID and secret access key
   to be used when query AWS (optional).  If they are not provided, then coredns tries to access
   AWS credentials the same way as AWS CLI, e.g., environmental variables, AWS credentials file,
   instance profile credentials, etc.

## Examples

Enable route53, with implicit aws credentials:

~~~ txt
. {
    route53 example.org.:Z1Z2Z3Z4DZ5Z6Z7
}
~~~

Enable route53, with explicit aws credentials:

~~~ txt
. {
    route53 example.org.:Z1Z2Z3Z4DZ5Z6Z7 {
      aws_access_key AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
  }
}
~~~

Commit message:

[plugin/route53]: Support batch mode operation. (#2050)
* [plugin/route53]: Support batch mode operation.

Cache all Route53 records internally using `ListResourceRecordPagesWithContext`
and serve them from memory.

Bonus features:

  * Support additional r53 record types (`CNAME`, `SOA`, etc)
  * Support `upstream` option (#2099 filed to support argument optionality)

Signed-off-by: Dmitry Ilyevskiy <dmitry.ilyevskiy@getcruise.com>
Signed-off-by: Dmitry Ilyevskiy <ilyevsky@gmail.com>

plugin/route53/README.md, after:

# route53

## Name

*route53* - enables serving zone data from AWS route53.

## Description

The route53 plugin is useful for serving zones from resource record sets in AWS route53. This plugin
supports all Amazon Route 53 records (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/ResourceRecordTypes.html).
The route53 plugin can be used when coredns is deployed on AWS or elsewhere.

## Syntax

~~~ txt
route53 [ZONE:HOSTED_ZONE_ID...] {
    [aws_access_key AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY]
    upstream [ADDRESS...]
}
~~~

* **ZONE** the name of the domain to be accessed.
* **HOSTED_ZONE_ID** the ID of the hosted zone that contains the resource record sets to be accessed.
* **AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID** and **AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY** the AWS access key ID and secret access key
   to be used when query AWS (optional).  If they are not provided, then coredns tries to access
   AWS credentials the same way as AWS CLI, e.g., environmental variables, AWS credentials file,
   instance profile credentials, etc.
* `upstream` [**ADDRESS**...] specifies upstream resolver(s) used for resolving services that point
   to external hosts (eg. used to resolve CNAMEs). If no **ADDRESS** is given, CoreDNS will resolve
   against itself. **ADDRESS** can be an IP, an IP:port or a path to a file structured like
   resolv.conf (**NB**: Currently a bug (#2099) is preventing the use of self-resolver).

## Examples

Enable route53 with implicit aws credentials and an upstream:

~~~ txt
. {
    route53 example.org.:Z1Z2Z3Z4DZ5Z6Z7
    upstream 10.0.0.1
}
~~~

Enable route53 with explicit aws credentials:

~~~ txt
. {
    route53 example.org.:Z1Z2Z3Z4DZ5Z6Z7 {
      aws_access_key AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
  }
}
~~~
