plugin/pprof/README.md, before:

# pprof

## Name

*pprof* - publishes runtime profiling data at endpoints under `/debug/pprof`.

## Description

You can visit `/debug/pprof` on your site for an index of the available endpoints. By default it
will listen on localhost:6053.

> This is a debugging tool. Certain requests (such as collecting execution traces) can be slow. If
> you use pprof on a live server, consider restricting access or enabling it only temporarily.

For more information, please see [Go's pprof
documentation](https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/pprof/) and read
[Profiling Go Programs](https://blog.golang.org/profiling-go-programs).

## Syntax

~~~
pprof [ADDRESS]
~~~

If not specified, ADDRESS defaults to localhost:6053.

## Examples

Enable pprof endpoints:

~~~
. {
    pprof
}
~~~

Listen on an alternate address:

~~~ txt
. {
    pprof 10.9.8.7:6060
}
~~~

Listen on an all addresses on port 6060:

~~~ txt
. {
    pprof :6060
}
~~~

## Also See

See [Go's pprof documentation](https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/pprof/) and [Profiling Go
Programs](https://blog.golang.org/profiling-go-programs).

Commit message:

return an error for multiple use of some plugins (#1559)
* plugins: Return error for multiple use of some

Return plugin.ErrOnce when a plugin that doesn't support it, is called
mutliple times.

This now adds it for: cache, dnssec, errors, forward, hosts, nsid.
And changes it slightly in kubernetes, pprof, reload, root.

* more tests

plugin/pprof/README.md, after:

# pprof

## Name

*pprof* - publishes runtime profiling data at endpoints under `/debug/pprof`.

## Description

You can visit `/debug/pprof` on your site for an index of the available endpoints. By default it
will listen on localhost:6053.

> This is a debugging tool. Certain requests (such as collecting execution traces) can be slow. If
> you use pprof on a live server, consider restricting access or enabling it only temporarily.

For more information, please see [Go's pprof
documentation](https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/pprof/) and read
[Profiling Go Programs](https://blog.golang.org/profiling-go-programs).

This plugin can only be used once per Server Block.

## Syntax

~~~
pprof [ADDRESS]
~~~

If not specified, ADDRESS defaults to localhost:6053.

## Examples

Enable pprof endpoints:

~~~
. {
    pprof
}
~~~

Listen on an alternate address:

~~~ txt
. {
    pprof 10.9.8.7:6060
}
~~~

Listen on an all addresses on port 6060:

~~~ txt
. {
    pprof :6060
}
~~~

## Also See

See [Go's pprof documentation](https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/pprof/) and [Profiling Go
Programs](https://blog.golang.org/profiling-go-programs).
